So in this section, let's take everything
that we've been doing so far and
our observable notebooks and
translate it to an index HTML file.
And we wanna translate both our simple
bar chart and our filled flowers.
So let's get started first with
our simple bar chart and so
I have here a code sandbox and
the setup is our index HTML file.
And you can see what I've done here is and
hello Dan kind of some
of the standard headers.
I've loaded in RD3 file and
I've loaded in a copy of lodash.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to create my SVG element,
like we used to do in our
observable notebooks.
I'm going to open up a script tag, and
this is where all of our
JavaScript is going to go.
And I'm gonna copy over and
the code that we had
in our simple bar chart where we
did the animation and updating.
And then we're going to edit that
to make it work in our index HTML.
And hopefully you'll see that
the translation is actually quite
straightforward.
So oftentimes,
you can take whatever you prototyped
in observable and kind of drop it
straight into your code, right.
And your index HTML or
whatever your setup is.
So this is our code where we,
Animated our simple bar chart and
I'm just gonna take all of that.
And actually,
I'm gonna take it until right here,
where we said d3 Select button and
click update bars.
I'm going to drop it
into our index HTML file.
And, okay, let's go ahead and
edit this a little bit so
that it will work in this page.
So the first things that we
want to do is we add this
part where we say HTML back tick,
that is marked and
that is observable specific syntax.
So that's not going to
work in our HTML file.
So let's take that out.
Actually let's take all of this out.
And here we have two
options of doing things.
So either we can go ahead and
just create the equivalent in, so
actually, let's leave this up for now.
And we can either create
the equivalent in here, or
we can create all of these with d3.
So I'm going to show just the option where
we're going to create it in HTML first.
So we have our SVG height is,
think we hard coded, so
let's for now hard code it.
And this styling we can either put
it in a style, a CSS style up here
in the header or I'm just gonna
drop it straight into the SVG.
Then I'm going to put in a tag for
the code.
And then I'm going to put in a button for
the clicking to get the new data.
And I believe I wrapped this in maybe,
I think probably a div tag.
So, yeah, okay, now let's take this away.
So now we already see the SVG element,
probably rendering here and
the new data here.
And now we still have our rectangle
width and our SVG height defined.
And then here we have our
function update bars.
We're going to keep that.
And here we have the transition defined.
And this is where we're randomly
generating our array of data.
And our D3 code where we went and
updated and
transitioned our bars with the new data.
And of course, our D3 select actually,
there is something we want
to make sure to update.
Which is now that we're not
in observable anymore, and
we no longer have this variable SVG,
that is the actual DOM element.
So here we were passed in passing in
the actual DOM element when we were in
observable.
Now what we're going to do
is turn this into a string.
So this is our selector.
So this is saying, look at that.
So it's actually already showing up.
And so this will tell D3 and
to go ahead and
select this element And so that works.
And just the same, let's go ahead and
turn this code into the selector, perfect.
And now last thing we wanna
do is select the button,
and we got everything translated.
So, yeah.
That was hopefully a lot
simpler than I imagined.
The alternate way that we can do
it potentially, is we can also.
I wanna show this alternate way,
although I would say that this is
the easier way to translate it over.
Alternatively, the other option that we
have is let's say we create a div and
then we say okay, let's do a div ID.
Is equal to app.
And this might be how
you'll do things if you're working
with them like react or view.
And if you imagine that now we're
like in within reactor view here but,
and now what we can do is we can say,
okay.
We can have SUG.
Sorry, we can have D3.
Go ahead and select,
I'm gona call it our container.
And so I'm going to say D3.
Select and select that div with ID app.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna use that to create an SVG.
So I'm gonna use D3.
In this case,
I'm gonna use D3 to append an SVG and
things are already happening.
And I believe we had
an attribute of height,
and in this case,
I can pass in my variable SVG height.
And then believe I had a style
of was it overflow, visible.
And again,
we could put this in CSS style tag.
But just for the ease, we're gonna put
it with in our JavaScript for now.
And we wanna create our button.
And so we actually need to
do it in a specific order.
So let's go ahead and create a div for,
the button comes first and
then the code tag
So let's take the Taner and
we'll say, we want to create a div.
Let's say we're gonna call it a,
Let's call it, no.
Okay.
Naming is the thing I
struggle the most with.
I'm just gonna call it button code.
And so
now we have that container appendage.
And then,
I can do button code that append a button.
And that button should say dot txt,
new data
and button code dot append a code, yes.
And this is all working
because D3 knows to select and
it's being passed in that string selector.
And it knows because it's
already been created up here and
knows to go and
find that in the DOM alternatively.
I could name name each of these.
And then I can pass in those, wait, no,
actually, yeah, so
I can pass in each of those.
But the thing to note here is we
have to pass in a DOM element.
So SVG right now is a D3 selection.
To get the DOM element out of that,
we do .node.
Same thing, dot node here.
And, so any of the above works.
I personally think that the first
option is the easiest translation.
But if you already have some sort
of setup with your application,
your web application,
I wanted to show both of these options.
There we go.